fix(dotnet): clarify ASP.NET trace propagation vs. transactions (#18622)
getsentry/sentry-docs: platform-includes/distributed-tracing/how-to-use/dotnet.mdx

- ASP.NET Core
- Azure Functions Worker

When using ASP.NET (not ASP.NET Core), you have to hook into the request lifecycle in `Global.asax.cs` to propagate traces. There are two options, depending on whether you want this application to create its own transactions and spans.

> ### Create transactions and continue the trace (recommended)

Reviewer: suggestion: Use Title Case for headlines

```suggestion
### Create Transactions and Continue the Trace (Recommended)
```

see https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-docs/blob/master/.claude/skills/docs-review/SKILL.md

> In most cases you'll want your ASP.NET application to show up in your distributed traces with its own transactions and spans. Use `StartSentryTransaction` in `Application_BeginRequest` and `FinishSentryTransaction` in `Application_EndRequest`. `StartSentryTransaction` continues any incoming trace and creates a transaction for the request, so you don't need to call `StartOrContinueTrace` as well.

Author: ```suggestion
In most cases you'll want your ASP.NET application to show up in your distributed traces with its own transactions and spans. Use `StartSentryTransaction` in `Application_BeginRequest` and `FinishSentryTransaction` in `Application_EndRequest`. `StartSentryTransaction` continues any incoming trace and creates a transaction for the request.
```

```csharp
protected void Application_BeginRequest()
{
    Context.StartSentryTransaction();
}

protected void Application_EndRequest()
{
    Context.FinishSentryTransaction();
}
```

> ### Continue the trace without creating transactions

Reviewer: suggestion: Use Title Case for headlines

```suggestion
### Continue the Trace Without Creating Transactions
```

see https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-docs/blob/master/.claude/skills/docs-review/SKILL.md

> If you only want to propagate an incoming trace to downstream services (for example, a database or another API) without your ASP.NET application creating any transactions or spans of its own, use `StartOrContinueTrace` instead:

Reviewer: question: for platform ASP.NET only?

Should we limit this via platform-selection to `dotnet.aspnet` only, so that it does not show up for e.g. `dotnet.aspnetcore`?

Or is this information generally useful?

(also consider the `Alert` below)

Author: Yeah let's scope it ASP.NET only 👍🏻

> If you only want to propagate an incoming trace to downstream services (for example, a database or another API) without your ASP.NET application creating any transactions or spans of its own, use `StartOrContinueTrace` instead:

Reviewer: question: `of its own` vs `on its own`

Not sure if `on its own` instead of `of its own` is more correct here 🤔

```suggestion
If you only want to propagate an incoming trace to downstream services (for example, a database or another API) without your ASP.NET application creating any transactions or spans on its own, use `StartOrContinueTrace` instead:
```

Author: 'of its own' is fine - it implies possession.  'on its own' implies it does it independently. They both work though.

```csharp
protected void Application_BeginRequest()
{
    Context.StartOrContinueTrace();
}
```

<Alert level="warning">

> Use either `StartSentryTransaction` or `StartOrContinueTrace`, not both. `StartOrContinueTrace` only propagates the trace and does not create a transaction, so if you replace `StartSentryTransaction` with it, your ASP.NET application will stop sending transactions to Sentry. Since `StartSentryTransaction` already continues the incoming trace, most applications should use it on its own.

Reviewer: question: phrasing

Again, not sure if the phrasing could be better, in this case by removing `on its own`

```suggestion
Use either `StartSentryTransaction` or `StartOrContinueTrace`, not both. `StartOrContinueTrace` only propagates the trace and does not create a transaction, so if you replace `StartSentryTransaction` with it, your ASP.NET application will stop sending transactions to Sentry. Since `StartSentryTransaction` already continues the incoming trace, most applications should use that method.
```

Author: I think it's OK as is - we're emphasising that these methods are mutually exclusive of one another - they should be used on their own (not together).
